[DECLUTTER WHY] Rework Privacy in Bitcoin (#569)
zkSNACKs/WasabiDoc: docs/why-wasabi/WhyFinancialPrivacy.md

---
{
  "title": "Why Financial Privacy is Especially Important",
  "description": "An introduction to the positive and negative side of Privacy in Bitcoin today. This is the Wasabi documentation, an archive of knowledge about the open-source, non-custodial and privacy-focused Bitcoin wallet for desktop."
}
---

# Why Financial Privacy is Especially Important

> The possibility to be anonymous or pseudonymous relies on you not revealing any identifying information about yourself in connection with the bitcoin addresses you use.

> If you post your bitcoin address on the web, then you’re associating that address and any transactions with it with the name you posted under.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you post your bitcoin address on the web, then you're associating that address and any transactions with it with the name you posted under.
```

> If you posted under a handle that you haven’t associated with your real identity, then you’re still pseudonymous.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you posted under a handle that you haven't associated with your real identity, then you're still pseudonymous.
```

For greater privacy, it's best to use bitcoin addresses only once.

By Satoshi Nakamoto in [How anonymous are bitcoins? - Bitcointalk](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8.msg34#msg34)

[[toc]]

![](/InfographicWhyWasabi.png)

---

## Why it is important to keep your funds private

One of the apparent contradictions of Bitcoin is the notion that your transactions can be private but have a public transaction record.

As a financial system, Bitcoin functions completely differently from the established banking network.

> Bitcoin allows you to store funds yourself, without the need for a third party, and therefore places the burden of keeping said funds secure and accessible on you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bitcoin allows you to store funds yourself, without the need for a third party, and therefore places the burden on you of keeping said funds secure and accessible.
```

> While opening an account with a traditional bank or other financial institution requires significant cost and effort, creating a Bitcoin account is quick and easy to do on your home computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While opening an account with a traditional bank or other financial institution requires significant cost and effort, creating a Bitcoin wallet is quick and easy to do on your home computer.
```

> This speedy process makes it possible to create hundreds of separate accounts if you wish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This speedy process makes it possible to create hundreds of separate wallets if you wish.
```

> Two aspects in particular—privacy and identity—function very differently with Bitcoin than in the legacy financial system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two aspects —in particular privacy and identity— function very differently with Bitcoin than in the legacy financial system.
```

## Pseudonyms protect your identity in Bitcoin

> A bank account, PayPal account, or credit card is always tied to a real identity, making it difficult for many people to open them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A bank account, PayPal account, or credit card is always tied to a real identity, making it difficult for many people to open one.
```

> Bitcoin allows you to use any persona or online identity you wish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bitcoin doesn't require any identity to be part of this network.
```

Being able to use the internet anonymously or pseudonymously is the only way for many people to truly be themselves.
Hundreds of millions of people around the globe are not accepted in their societies for reasons they cannot control.

Pseudonyms are used by women speaking up for their rights, atheists living in religious societies, and people critical of their governments to spread their thoughts, empower their causes, and encourage those around them to do the same.

These courageous men and women put their own safety and well-being at risk to defend who they are and what they believe in. 
Technology empowers them to become leaders of social change in societies by providing this very pseudonymity.
Technology also connects like-minded individuals so they can form the communities for which they strive.

Maintaining an identity with a large following might require paid services such as blogs, logo designs, stock photos, VPNs, or translations.
Without the ability to pay for these services anonymously, you would be forced to reveal your true identity in order to maintain your pseudonym situation.

> This clearly makes no sense, and has potentially dangerous ramifications.

Reviewer: IMO we don't need all of this.

Author: Agreed, here is a lot of blabber, but what shall be removed and rewritten?

Reviewer: I think just saying that being part of the Bitcoin network doesn't require any identity is enough.

> Without the ability to pay for these services anonymously, you would be forced to reveal your true identity in order to maintain your pseudonym situation which clearly makes no sense, and one with potentially dangerous ramifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Without the ability to pay for these services anonymously, you would be forced to reveal your true identity in order to maintain your pseudonym situation.
This clearly makes no sense, and has potentially dangerous ramifications.
```

## How Bitcoin empowers anonymity

Bitcoin is an important, empowering technology.

> Using a Bitcoin account with a pseudonym protects your right to remain anonymous on the internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Bitcoin protects your right to remain anonymous on the internet.
```

It allows anonymous or pseudonymous fundraising.
Groups can collectively control Bitcoin accounts and choose to either hide or reveal financial information at will.

There are many positive reasons for a private and secure banking system like Bitcoin.

> For example, a workers’ rights group could raise funds with Bitcoin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a workers' rights group could raise funds with Bitcoin.
```

The money could be used for servers, flyers, remote helpers… and all without tying any transaction to the real identities of the volunteers.

Likewise, a domestic abuse victim might use Bitcoin to securely stack away funds to prepare for an independent life.

## Privacy through pseudonymous accounts

Privacy in traditional banking is guaranteed by the institutions that make up the system, such as banks, credit card companies, and governments.
They (try to) ensure that your bank balance stays a secret.
This puts them in a powerful position, where only they have complete oversight as to what is going on.

In the Bitcoin ecosystem, everyone can see the history of every account balance, but they cannot see who controls an account.

> All addresses and transactions are recorded in Bitcoin’s publicly distributed database, the blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All addresses and transactions are recorded in Bitcoin's publicly distributed database, the blockchain.
```

## Threat model

When considering privacy you need to think about exactly who you're hiding from.
You must examine how a hypothetical adversary could spy on you, what kind of information is most important to you and which technology you need to use to protect your privacy.
The kind of behaviour needed to protect your privacy therefore depends on your threat model.

Newcomers to privacy often think that they can simply download some software and all their privacy concerns will be solved.
This is not so.
Privacy requires a change in behaviour, however slight.
For example, imagine if you had a perfectly private internet where who you're communicating with and what you say are completely private.
You could still use this to communicate with a social media website to write your real name, upload a selfie and talk about what you're doing right now.
Anybody on the internet could view that information so your privacy would be ruined even though you were using perfectly private technology.

For details read the talk [Opsec for Hackers by grugq](https://www.slideshare.net/grugq/opsec-for-hackers).

> The talk is aimed mostly at political activists who need privacy from governments, but much the advice generally applies to all of us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The talk is aimed mostly at political activists who need privacy from governments, but the advice generally applies to all of us.
```

> Much of the time plausible deniability is not good enough because lots of spying methods only need to work on a statistical level (e.g. targeted advertising).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the time plausible deniability is not good enough because lots of spying methods only need to work on a statistical level (e.g. targeted advertising).

```
